With autocomplete, you can enter a Google search more quickly. You can turn off or remove certain autocomplete predictions or report issues with your predictions. Learn more about autocomplete.

Turn off Personal results

Important: When Personal results are off, you won't get personalized predictions or recommendations based on your past searches. If you have Web & App Activity on, your Search history is saved in your Google Account and used to give you more personalized experiences in other Google services. Learn how to find & control your Web & App Activity.

If you’re signed in to your Google Account and have Personal results turned on, you might also get personalized predictions and recommendations in Google Search. If you don’t want to get these predictions and recommendations, turn off Personal results.

Turn off trending searches

If you don’t want to get trending searches in the Google app, you can change your settings.

Important: When you turn off trending searches, it turns off in the Google app on that device. If you want to turn off trending searches on google.com, update your settings in a mobile browser.

To turn off trending searches: On your Android phone or tablet, open the Google app . At the top right, tap your Profile picture or initial Settings General. Turn off Autocomplete with trending searches.

Turn off trending searches from a mobile browser On your Android phone or tablet, open a browser like Chrome or Firefox. Go to google.com. At the top left, tap Menu Settings. Under "Autocomplete with trending searches," select Do not show popular searches.

Turn off related searches

If you’re signed out of your Google Account when you search on Google, you may find recommendations related to your recent search. If you don’t want to get these, turn off Search customization.

On your Android phone or tablet, open the Google app . At the top right, tap your Profile picture or initial Settings General Search customization. Turn off Search customization.

Report a prediction

While we do our best to prevent inappropriate predictions, we don’t always get it right. If you think a prediction violates one of the autocomplete policies, you can report it: On your Android phone or tablet, go to google.com or open the Google app . In the search bar, type a search. Predictions show up below the search bar. Long-press a prediction. Tap Report this. We’ll analyze your feedback, but we don’t automatically remove reported predictions.

I have a legal issue with the prediction

To request removal of content you think is unlawful, fill out this form.

Related resources