Microsoft CMO reveals how to ensure a salary hike

New Delhi: It's that time of the year when employees eagerly wait for their annual appraisals but for It's that time of the year when employees eagerly wait for their annual appraisals but for Microsoft employees there won't be any salary hike. The news came as a big shock to people working at the company as CEO Satya Nadella broke the news in an internal email. Now, the Microsoft's Chief marketing officer (CMO) Chris Capossela has spilled the beans on how to ensure that you get a pay hike.

To get a pay rise at Microsoft, people must work to make the company's stock ‘go higher,’ he said. The message comes at a time when employees are angry with the tech giant over its move to freeze salary hike for full-time workers.

quoted "The most important lever for almost all of our employees' compensation upside is the stock price. So, great quarterly results contribute to making the stock attractive, which, in turn, drives everyone's total compensation up,” Fortune Capossela as saying in an internal communication to employees.

“Microsoft still continues to invest heavily in its people, and its data centre capacity, to hopefully position it well for the artificial intelligence (AI) transformation,” said Capossela.

No Salary Hike For Microsoft Employees

Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella sent an email to employees earlier this month intimidating them about the company's decision to not give any hike this year. He said the move was necessary to help navigate ‘macroeconomic ructions,’ and to generate ‘enough yield’ to invest in the major platform shift towards AI, noted Nadella.

“Though we will maintain our bonus and stock award budget again this year, we will not overfund to the extent we did last year, bringing it closer to our historical averages,” he wrote in the email.

In January, Microsoft had announced it will terminate 10,000 workers accounting for less than 5% of its then overall staff strength. This was done to align its cost structure with revenue, and with its projected customer demand.

"Today, we are making changes that will result in the reduction of our overall workforce by 10,000 jobs through the end of FY23 Q3. This represents less than 5 percent of our total employee base, with some notifications happening today. It's important to note that while we are eliminating roles in some areas, we will continue to hire in key strategic areas. We know this is a challenging time for each person impacted. The senior leadership team and I are committed that as we go through this process, we will do so in the most thoughtful and transparent way possible," CEO Satya Nadella had said in an official blog post.