sa.global Announces Go-Live of Microsoft Suite Implementation For Client, PT. Mandiri Graha Persada

PT MGP & sa.global representatives @ go-live event

www.saglobal.com

Moving to the Microsoft Cloud platform with the implementation of Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central, Microsoft Dynamics 365 Sales, and Microsoft Power Apps will enable the business to adapt as they grow, make the most of their IT investments, and streamline their daily operations.Jakarta, INDONESIA - May 19, 2023: sa.global and PT. Mandiri Graha Persada (MGP) are excited to announce the implementation and go-live of Microsoft-based solutions for the MGP Group. PT. Mandiri Graha Persada is a leading Food and Beverage retail organization based in Indonesia. The implementation of Microsoft solutions on the cloud will now enable the MGP Group to work smarter, adapt faster, perform better, and grow the business.With Dynamics 365 Business Central, the MGP Group will see transformative improvements in their financial management, purchases, warehouse management, and inventory processes. Dynamics 365 Sales will give their sales team a powerful tool to build a connected sales experience. The solution is complemented by sa.global's Sales on The Go - a sales collection module built on Power Apps, which will help the team track purchase orders, payments, and sales figures. This is an important part of the organization's transformation strategy to enhance user experience and better serve its clients."We would like to extend a big thank you to the sa.global team for the outstanding performance and collaboration with the MGP team on this project. With everyone's hard work, we managed to complete the project on time. By implementing the systems, MGP is positioned to push for continued success and growth. Looking forward to collaborating with the sa.global team to support us on the journey ahead," said Hendra Cipta Setiawan, Head of Commercial, Mandiri Graha Persada, about this milestone."The operational complexity of the beverages sector and the regulation around its activities are some of the challenges that the project faced and successfully overcame. The team was dedicated towards ensuring that this project is aligned to bringing consistent value for the client. We are very pleased to collaborate with the MGP Group and look to further enhance the organization's capabilities and accelerate the transformation of their business," stated Mairi Herman, Senior Business Development Manager, sa.global.Speaking about this partnership and the go-live, Neill Hills-Johnes, Regional Director - APAC, stated, "I'm excited for MGP to use the foundation they have now for greater operational agility through apps that bring together people, insights, and processes. By choosing to build their business on the Microsoft Business App cloud they will be able to access the extensibility it provides to transform their business while they scale at their own pace."About PT. Mandiri Graha PersadaPT. Mandiri Graha Persada is a Food and Beverage retail organization that has 10 sister companies involved in distribution, importing, and the retail of alcoholic beverages. PT. Mandiri Graha Persada currently imports over 1000 products from 10 regions across nations. In just over 10 years, the company has grown into a leading importer of alcoholic beverages in Indonesia. The company supplies the world's leading liquor brands to eleven distributors across ten regions in the country. For more information, visit PT. Mandiri Graha Persada.sa.global IndonesiaWisma Slipi Building, suite 1206,12th Floor Jl. Let. Jend. S. Parman kav.12 West Jakarta, 11480About sa.globalsa.global empowers project-based organizations to achieve more by simplifying the complexities of businesses powered by profitable projects. It is our sole focus. Our solutions and services are 100% based on Microsoft business applications and the Microsoft cloud. We leverage these to drive profitability and realization through collaboration, connected experiences, and real-time business insights.With 30+ years of real-world experience, we are an 11-time winner of the Microsoft Dynamics Partner of the Year Award and have been a part of Microsoft's elite Inner Circle for 10-years. Our global organization has a team of 1000+ members across 25-countries offering industry-specific solutions to project-based businesses. With over 800,000 users in 80-countries around the world relying on sa.global's industry-focused expertise to power project success, we are the go-to partner for project-based businesses across the globe. For more information, visit