Apple has regarded two of its products as obsolete. Well, which products have been labeled as outdated will be unveiled in this short piece. According to the Cupertino-based tech firm, the Thunderbolt display and the 1st-gen iPad Air are now outdated. The company claims that the above-mentioned devices are no longer eligible for receiving any kind of repair or hardware service at the company’s stores or Apple Authorized Service Providers.

Usually, the company declares a product as outdated after it has spent more than seven years from the time the company stopped its distributions for sale. Service providers are unable to obtain parts for outdated products since Apple has stopped providing hardware support for them. In 2016, the Thunderbolt Display and the first iPad Air were both retired.

Thunderbolt display and first-gen iPad Air are now obsolete

The Thunderbolt display was introduced back in 2011. It features a 27-inch screen that supports 1440p resolution. It is provided with a 720p camera, a FireWire 800 port, a Gigabit Ethernet port, three USB 2.0 ports, and a Thunderbolt port. It was available for $999. Before the Pro Display XDR was introduced in 2019, the Thunderbolt Display was the last monitor branded under Apple’s name.

On the other hand, the first-gen iPad Air was introduced back in 2013. It comes with a 9.7-inch display. It is powered by the A7 chip. In comparison to the iPad’s predecessor, it was touted as being 20% thinner, 28% lighter, and having 43% narrower display bezels.

The fifth-gen entry-level iPad has been regarded as a vintage

In addition to this, the company has recognized the 5th-gen entry-level iPad as vintage. Depending on the availability of replacement components, Apple deems a device vintage once more than five years have gone since the company stopped marketing it for sale. However, repairs and services may still be offered up to the product’s obsolescence in another two years.

Brian is the news author at Research Snipers which mainly covers Technology News, Microsoft News, Google News, Facebook, Apple, Huawei, Xiaomi, and other tech news.